subsys: net: download_client rework (#17481)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/networking/downloader.rst

.. _lib_downloader:

Download client
###############

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The download client library can be used to download files from a server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Download client library to download files from a server.
```

Overview
********

> The download is carried out in a separate thread, and the application receives events such as :c:enumerator:`DOWNLOADER_EVT_FRAGMENT` that contain the data fragments as the download progresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The download is carried out in a separate thread and the application receives events such as :c:enumerator:`DOWNLOADER_EVT_FRAGMENT` that contain the data fragments as the download progresses.
```

When the download completes, the library sends the :c:enumerator:`DOWNLOADER_EVT_DONE` event to the application.

Protocols
=========

> The library supports HTTP, HTTPS (TLS 1.2), CoAP, and CoAPS (DTLS 1.2) over IPv4 and IPv6. If other protocols are required they can be added by the application. See :c:file:`downloader_transport.h` for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library supports HTTP, HTTPS (TLS 1.2), CoAP, and CoAPS (DTLS 1.2) over IPv4 and IPv6.
If other protocols are required they can be added by the application.
See :c:file:`downloader_transport.h` for details.
```

> The protocol used for the download is specified by the start of the ``uri``. Use ``http://`` for HTTP, ``https://`` for HTTPS, ``coap://`` for COAP and ``coaps://`` for COAPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The protocol used for the download is specified in the beginning of the URI.
Use ``http://`` for HTTP, ``https://`` for HTTPS, ``coap://`` for COAP and ``coaps://`` for COAPS.
```

See :file:`downloader_transport.h` for details.
The protocol used for the download is specified in the beginning of the ``URI`` or ``host``.
Use ``http://`` for HTTP, ``https://`` for HTTPS, ``coap://`` for CoAP, and ``coaps://`` for CoAPS.
If no protocol is specified, the downloader defaults to HTTP or HTTPS, depending on the server security configuration.

.. _downloader_https:

HTTP and HTTPS (TLS 1.2)
------------------------

When downloading using HTTP, the library sends only one HTTP request to the server and receives only one HTTP response.

When downloading using HTTPS with an nRF91 Series device, it is carried out through `Content-Range requests (IETF RFC 7233)`_ due to memory constraints that limit the maximum HTTPS message size to two kilobytes.
The library thus sends and receives as many requests and responses as the number of fragments that constitute the download.

> For example, to download a file of 47 kilobytes with a fragment size of two kilobytes, a total of 24 HTTP GET requests are sent.

Reviewer 2: For consistency

```suggestion
For example, to download a file of 47 kilobytes with a fragment size of 2 kilobytes, a total of 24 HTTP GET requests are sent.
```

Author: I've already changed this from `2` to `two` based on tech writers comments.

Reviewer 2: @divipillai I think that in this case `2` instead of `two` is preferred since there is a math calculation implied in this sentence.

Author: updated

> For example, to download a file of size 47 kilobytes file with a fragment size of 2 kilobytes, a total of 24 HTTP GET requests are sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to download a file of 47 kilobytes with a fragment size of two kilobytes, a total of 24 HTTP GET requests are sent.
```

-------------------------

> The CoAP feature is disabled by default and can be enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_TRANSPORT_COAP` Kconfig option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CoAP feature is disabled by default.
You can enable it using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_TRANSPORT_COAP` Kconfig option.
```

When downloading from a CoAP server, the library uses the CoAP block-wise transfer.

Configuration
*************

The configuration of the library depends on the protocol you are using.

Configuring HTTP and HTTPS (TLS 1.2)
====================================

Make sure the buffer provided to the download client is large enough to accommodate the entire HTTP header of the request.

> Ensure that the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_MAX_HOSTNAME_SIZE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_MAX_FILENAME_SIZE` Kconfig option values are large enough for your host and filenames, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the values of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_MAX_HOSTNAME_SIZE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_MAX_FILENAME_SIZE` Kconfig options are large enough for your host and filenames, respectively.
```

Moreover, the application must provision the TLS credentials and pass the security tag to the library when using HTTPS and calling the :c:func:`downloader_get` function.
To provision a TLS certificate to the modem, use :c:func:`modem_key_mgmt_write` and other :ref:`modem_key_mgmt` APIs.

Configuring CoAP and CoAPS (DTLS 1.2)
=====================================

> Make sure the buffer provided to the download client is large enough to accommodate the entire CoAP header and the CoAP block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that the buffer provided to the download client is large enough to accommodate the entire CoAP header and the CoAP block.
```

> The CoAP block size is given by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_COAP_BLOCK_SIZE` Kconfig option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CoAP block size is provided by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_COAP_BLOCK_SIZE` Kconfig option.
```

> Ensure that the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_MAX_HOSTNAME_SIZE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_MAX_FILENAME_SIZE` Kconfig option values are large enough for your host and filenames, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the values of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_MAX_HOSTNAME_SIZE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_MAX_FILENAME_SIZE` Kconfig options are large enough for your host and filenames, respectively.
```

> The application must provision the TLS credentials and pass the security tag to the library when using CoAPS and calling the or :c:func:`downloader_get` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application must provision the TLS credentials and pass the security tag to the library when using CoAPS and calling the :c:func:`downloader_get` function.
```

> When you have modem firmware v1.3.5 or newer, you can use the DTLS Connection Identifier feature in this library by setting the ``cid`` flag in the :c:struct:`downloader_host_cfg` struct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you have modem firmware v1.3.5 or newer, you can use the DTLS Connection Identifier feature in this library by setting the ``cid`` flag in the :c:struct:`downloader_host_cfg` structure.
```

Limitations
***********

> The library requires the host server to provide a Content-Range field in the HTTP GET header when using HTTPS with the nRF91 series.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library requires the host server to provide a Content-Range field in the HTTP GET header when using HTTPS with the nRF91 Series devices.
```

If this header field is missing, the library logs the following error::

   <err> downloader: Server did not send "Content-Range" in response

> It is not possible to use a CoAP block size of 1024 bytes, due to internal limitations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to internal limitations, you cannot use CoAP block size of 1024 bytes.
```

Usage
*****

Initialization and deinitialization

> ===================================

Reviewer: Do we need this sub heading?

> The download client is initialized by calling the :c:func:`downloader_init` function as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To initialize the library, call the :c:func:`downloader_init` function as follows:
```

.. code-block:: c

   int err;

   static int dlc_callback(const struct downloader_evt *event);

   char dlc_buf[2048];
   struct downloader dlc;
   struct downloader_cfg dlc_conf = {
         .callback = dlc_callback,
         .buf = dlc_buf,
         .buf_size,
   };

   err = downloader_init(&dlc, &dls_config);
   if (err) {
         printk("Download client init failed, err %d\n", err);
   }

> The download client is deinitialized by calling the :c:func:`downloader_deinit` function as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deinitialize the library, call the :c:func:`downloader_deinit` function as follows:
```

.. code-block:: c

   int err;
   struct downloader dlc;

   /* download client is initialized */

   err = downloader_deinit(&dlc);
   if (err) {
         printk("Download client deinit failed, err %d\n", err);
   }

> This will free up the resources used by the download client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will free up the resources used by the library.
```

> The following snippet shouws how to download a file using HTTPS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following snippet shows how to download a file using HTTPS:
```

The library thus sends and receives as many requests and responses as the number of fragments that constitute the download.
For example, to download a file of 47 kilobytes with a fragment size of 2 kilobytes, a total of 24 HTTP GET requests are sent.
The download can also be carried out through fragments by specifying the :c:member:`downloader_host_cfg.range_override` field of the host configuration.

CoAP and CoAPS (DTLS 1.2)
-------------------------

The CoAP feature is disabled by default.
You can enable it using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_TRANSPORT_COAP` Kconfig option.
When downloading from a CoAP server, the library uses the CoAP block-wise transfer.

Configuration
*************

The configuration of the library depends on the protocol you are using.

Configuring HTTP and HTTPS (TLS 1.2)
====================================

Make sure that the buffer provided to the downloader is large enough to accommodate the entire HTTP header of the request.
Ensure that the values of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_MAX_HOSTNAME_SIZE` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_DOWNLOADER_MAX_FILENAME_SIZE` Kconfig options are large enough for your host and filenames, respectively.

> Moreover, the application must provision the TLS credentials and pass the security tag to the library when using HTTPS and calling the :c:func:`downloader_get` function.

Author: This is taken from the download client library documentation, but agreed, I can rewrite it.
